%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\section{Model}
\label{sec:model}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

In Lamports original paper on the byzantine generals problem a two algorithms
were proposed, along with imposibility results for reaching
concencuss~\cite{Lamport:1982:BGP:357172.357176}. Their theroms proved that
Concencus among generals is impossible, under the condition that generals can
forge messages, if more than one third of the generals is byzantine. Further,
they demonstrate that if messages are sealed with an unforgable signature,
byzantine falut tolerance can be achieved with $n-1$ byzantine generals. Here
we define our model of a distributed system and describe three granularities of
byzantine fault tolerance. Each granularitiy is paried with a corresponding
configuration with which use Obeah, and systems which have acheived the
corresponding tolerance.

\subsection{Byzantine Distributed System Model}

We define a distributed system to be composed of $N$ nodes where $N = \{n_1,
n_2, \dots, n_n$\}. Each node can communicate with other nodes on any number of
channels $C$ where $C = \{c_1, c_2, \dots, c_m\}$. Any node may fail, or resume
exeuction at any time. Channels may drop, reorder, and manipulate messages. We
define the set $B$ where $B \subset N$ to be the number of byzantine nodes in a
system. Byzantine nodes can behave arbetrarility, and antagonisticly, with the
possiblity to callude with other byzantine nodes in the system.

Nodes insturmented by Obeah are Byzantine to the rest of the nodes in the
system. From the perspecive of a node insturmented with Obeah all other nodes,
and all channles in the system are byzantine.


\subsection{Single Byzantine Node}

Many distributed systems dismiss the need to protect againts byzantine fault
tolerance. Any admission of byzantine tolerance requires a formalization of the
degree of fault tolerance thier system can adhere to. However, all distributed
systems must account for non-determinism in the network, messages can be
reordered or dropped, and correct systems must survive them. Protecting againts
a single byzantine node, is similar to protecting against the network, as it
can generate arbetrary messages, and fail to respond, mimicing a partition.

This level of fault tolerance requires a single node in a system, where $N > 3$
to be instrumented with Obeah. Figure~\ref{} visualizes this configuration. We
propose that any implementation of fault tolerant concecus such as
Paxos~\cite{Lamport2001Paxos}, Raft~\cite{184040} or 3PC~\cite{1703048} must handel these failures.

\subsection{$N/3 -1$}

Lamports proposed an algorithm for solving the byzantine generals propblem in
which $N/3-1$ generals are byzantine. In short the algorithm states that for
any propositions by a general, if all other generals confer with one another on
the proposition they received, concencus among non-byzantine generals can be
reached.

In order to simulate such a scenerio $N/3 - 1$ instance of insturmented Obeah
nodes must be run together in a cluster. Figure~\ref{} visualizes this
configuration. File systems such as NFS have achived this level of fault
tolerance with minimal overhead~\cite{Castro:1999:PBF:296806.296824}.

\subsection{$N-1$}

Finally some systems require the complete resiliane of any given node subject all other nodes being byzantine. Lamport proposes by using an unforgable signature on each messages, an recursivly passing all receved messages to all other nodes, concensus can be reached where $B = N -1$.

To simulate this scenerio all but a single node should be executed in an
enviornment of Obeah instrumented nodes. Figure~\ref{} visualizes this
configuration. Digital currency systems such a Bitcoin have achived this level
of resiliane through the use of itterative public key
encryption~\cite{Nakamoto_bitcoin:a}.
